---
layout: essay
type: essay
draft: false
title: How Does One Ask a Smart Question?
date: 2020-09-10
labels:
  - Create Smart Questions
  - Software Engineer
---

We have all been there before, trying to solve a problem but only making things worse. Then you spent hours Googling for potential solutions or clues. As a computer science student this occurs most often. If Google does not have your answer then it is time to ask for some help. The most common open source community to ask for help pertaining to programming is Stack Overflow. But, be warned you must always try to ask smart questions or risk not getting any answers at all. So, exactly how does one create a smart question.

## What Makes a not so Smart Question?
Now, it is tempting to just ask directly for a solution. But by doing so, you may be told to figured it out yourself or may not receive any response at all. This forum at Stack Overflow called, [python compound interest formula](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63822270/python-compound-interest-formulas), had been up for only a day and it just recently closed. No one even bothered to give any response. In this forum, it is formulated as a lazy question. It was almost as if the asker just copied and pasted a homework problem and just expect for someone to give an answer. The problem was to create two functions that would use the given compound interest formula to perform an elementwise operation to generate a numpy array values. And it had to be done in python language. I do not have any experience with python, but the first thing I would have done if I were the asker, is to do some readings about the elementwise operations and numpy arrays. And then try to solve it myself. Only then I would have asked a question for any troubles I had followed by my understanding of the problem and my attempts to solve it. If the question were formulated like this, the user would have likely gotten some response.

## What Makes a Smart Question?
A good question always shows your understanding and attempts in solving the problem. As [Raymond](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html) states in his article at paragraph 13, "*The best way to get a rapid and responsive answer is to ask it like a person with smarts, confidence, and clues who just happens to need help on one particular problem*". So, before you ask your question, consider doing some readings related to the problem. Then create some potential solutions and test them. If all else fails, then it is time to create a smart question. Take this simple forum question called, [Array versus linked-list](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/166884/array-versus-linked-list?rq=1). The question this person asked was, why would you use linked-list over array-list. This person also stated that he or she had implemented both data structures and knows how implementing certain functions of a linked list and array list takes effort. This question is a step up from the first question I had mentioned. As a result, this forum had about 34 responses answering this question. The general responses were about time-complexity and preference of array-list over linked-list for certain projects or vice versa. So, what made this question much better than the first question? To me the biggest part was it is engaging and it helps the community. It is engaging because so many people took the time to respond to this question stating their opinions, facts and links that points to the answer. It helps the community because, this question will help anyone else who may have this question as well. Although this question is not a coding problem it is still a smart question.

## The Importance of Smart Questions to Software Engineers
When it comes to programming there is always going to be some problems that will leave you stumped. The most obvious way to get an answer is through Google. But what happens if Google does not give you the answer you are looking for. The next thing you want to do is to ask questions. To be a successful Software Engineer asking smart questions is a must have ability.  As a Software Engineer you will be solving problems. And at some point, these problems can be very challenging. You can try to find your answer on Google or anywhere else on the web but eventually, you will need to ask someone for help. You can either ask your co-workers or the plentiful open source community, such as Stack Overflow for some clues to the problem. However, do mind that asking a smart question is not that simple. In fact, a single question is enough to make yourself look like a fool or an idiot. You need to show that you tried to solve the problem yourself. Include your thoughts on the problem and if possible, a chunk of where the problem occurs on your code. Then state what you have tried to fix it. If you have formulated your questions like this, you are more likely to get some clue or an answer to the problem. So, before you go and ask your question, ask yourself, is it a smart question or a dumb question.  
	 

