---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: On My Way to Becoming A Software Engineer
date: 2020-09-04
labels:
  - JavaScript
  - Software Engineer
---

Time flies by so fast. It feels like yesterday that I was a freshman learning to code with Java. Now here I am a junior, in a Software Engineering course learning how to professionally present myself to the world. And learning a brand-new language called JavaScript. Throughout the years I developed potential careers that I may pursue in the future. Although it still not set in stone, I am interested in designing video games and mobile application. And now a brand-new interest towards designing Websites. This Software Engineering course is perfect for me to develop skills towards my interests. 

## My Journey As a Programmer
I started my journey with Java. When I first learned this programming language there was a lot of struggles. Most of the time I would spend hours just trying to understand how a code works. And whenever I implement something in java there would be lots of bugs. If I try to fix the code more bugs emerge. This would repeat for each assignment until I finally got the hang of the language. At this point we had implemented three simple java game projects. These projects only reinforced my interest towards coding my own games. It made me dream of someday creating the best game ever. After learning the basis of Java, I was then introduced to Data structures. Taking the data structure class, ICS 211, introduced to me my second interest, designing mobile applications. My understanding of data structure and my knowledge of java made me curious after seeing the connections between java and data structures with today’s common mobile apps. After doing some more reading about the Java language I learned that Java was commonly used to make applications. So, this got me thinking, would it be great if I could also make a game app or just any simple app.

My journey with Java came to a halt for a while as I began to learn two brand new languages, C and C++. So did these two languages sparked my interest in web design, the answer is sort of. Learning C and C++ proved to be more challenging than Java. To become decent in C and C++, I needed to spend less time coding and more time tracing and writing pseudo codes. Doing so made my time learning C and C++ painless and less time consuming when I start coding. This class somewhat sparked my interest in Web design when I was first introduced to the class website. It made me wonder how does this website work and how it was made. But the biggest factor was when I was learning about UNIX commands. YouTube was always my first choice. So, as I was watching the video, an advertisement pops up and the ad was about creating websites. Of course, I automatically skipped the ad at first, but after seeing the ad pop up numerous times and my need to take a short break, I decided to watch it. This was when my interest in web-design began but I was not able to start learning more about it until I started taking the Software Engineering course.

## So What Made Me Want to keep on Coding?
My interest towards coding began with a curiosity of creating games. I knew from the start about the complexity of creating those Triple A games or any games in general. But that did not stop me from to learning how to a create simple game with my first coding Language, Java. So why did I bother taking this course? Well besides the course being required, I hoped to gain the experience and the skill to become a software engineer. That first skill that I want to develop is learning how to collaborate with others. Throughout the years, I had mostly been coding for my assignments in C, C++, or java. The project was mostly done yourself and not with others. As for the games I tried to make, they can be easily done by yourself. So, I have little experience when it comes with group projects. As a software Engineer, its crucial to be able to work with others because on large projects it would be too handle alone. Software Engineering is like a key for my three main interest. This course does not just teach Web design. It teaches the you how to become a professional programmer. Throughout this course you would develop the skills. And my expectation after this course is, I have not just learned Web design but to become a Software Engineer. 
